docs: provide docs content for template (#843)
asyncapi/generator: docs/template-development.md

---
title: "Template development"
weight: 50
---

## Minimum template requirements

> Let's discuss the minimum components your template requires: `template` directory and `package.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's break down the minimum template requirements: the `template` directory and a `package.json` file.
```

> ## 1. `template` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `template` directory
```

Reviewer: Are you sure you accepted all changes @pratik2315 ? I am still seeing numbers 1 and 2 in these headers when I display the rich diff view

The `template` directory stores generated outputs in files. In other words, the generator processes all the files stored in this directory.

```js
import { File, Text } from "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk";

export default function({ asyncapi, params, originalAsyncAPI }) {
return (
    <File name="asyncapi.md">

>     <Text>This is a markdown file for my application.</Text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Text>My application's markdown file.</Text>
```

>     <Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Text>App name: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
```

    </File>
);
}
```

> ## 2. `package.json` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `package.json` file
```

> Before the generation process begins, the generator installs the template into its dependencies. A `package.json` is necessary to identify the template name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the generation process begins, the generator installs the template into its dependencies. A `package.json` file is necessary to identify the template name.
```

The following block shows an example `package.json` file that points to the [React Render Engine](react-render-engine.md) and necessary dependencies:

```json
{
  "name": "myTemplate",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
  }
}
```

> The above example of a`template/index.js` file shows the generation process result. The user also receives an `asyncapi.md` file with hardcoded and dynamic (title of the application taken from AsyncAPI document) information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example of a `template/index.js` file shows the generation process result. The user also receives an `asyncapi.md` file with hardcoded and dynamic (application title from the AsyncAPI document) information.
```

Every template must depend on the [`@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk` package](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk), which contains a template file's basic components.

## Additional configuration options

You must configure the generator's `package.json` file to contain JSON objects with the required parameters for template configuration, such as:

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`renderer`| String | Its value can be either `react` or `nunjucks` (default).
|`supportedProtocols`| [String] | A list with all the protocols this template supports.
|`parameters`| Object[String, Object] | An object with all the parameters that can be passed when generating the template. When using the command line, it's done by indicating `--param name=value` or `-p name=value`.
|`parameters[param].description`| String | A user-friendly description about the parameter.
|`parameters[param].default`| Any | Default value of the parameter if not specified. Shouldn't be used for mandatory `required=true` parameters.
|`parameters[param].required`| Boolean | Whether the parameter is required or not.

> Above table lists some of the configurations options which help generator achieve specific set of tasks throughout the generation process. The `generator` property from 'package.json' contains all the configuration information. To learn more about template configuration and various supported parameters. Read more about the [configuration file](configuration-file.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above table lists some configuration options that help the generator achieve a specific set of tasks throughout the generation process. The `generator` property from 'package.json' contains all the configuration information. To learn more about template configuration and various supported parameters, read the [generator configuration file](configuration-file.md).
```

> > Whenever you make a change to the package.json, make sure you perform an update by running `npm install`;  this command synchronizes with the package-lock.json and validates the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Whenever you make a change to the package.json, make sure you perform an update by running `npm install`;  this command synchronizes with the `package-lock.json` and validates the file.
```

> ### Adding configuration options in `package.json` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Adding `package.json` configuration options
```

The following examples show some advanced configurations that we can use in our `package.json` file:

```json
{
  "name": "myTemplate",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react",
    "supportedProtocols": "mqtt"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
  }
}
```
The above `package.json` file has a newly added configuration called `supportedProtocols` which is set to `mqtt`. This configuration displays all the protocols that this template supports. You can have multiple supported protocols in our template. 

> For example, if you want to generate an output using the above template, you need to have an AsyncAPI document that has servers that use `mqtt` in order to generate your desired output. If your AsyncAPI document has server connections with `kafka`, the generation process will be terminated since the only supported protocol mentioned is `mqtt`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to generate an output using the above template, you need to have an AsyncAPI document with servers that use `mqtt` to generate your desired output. If your AsyncAPI document has server connections with `kafka`, the generation process will be terminated since the only supported protocol mentioned is `mqtt`. 
```

> ### Accessing parameters inside the template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Accessing template parameters
```

> Additionally, we can also have a configuration called `parameters` which is an object with all the parameters that can be passed when generating the template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, we can also have a configuration called `parameters`, which is an object with all the parameters that can be passed when generating the template:
```

```json
{
  "name": "myTemplate",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react",
    "supportedProtocols": "mqtt",
    "parameters": {
        "version": {

>           "description": "Override the version of your application provided under `info.version` location in the AsyncAPI document.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          "description": "Overrides application version under `info.version` in the AsyncAPI document.",
```

          "required": false
        }
    }
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
  }
}
```

> The default version of your application is always fetched from your AsyncAPI document. The above configuration will help the template user to override the existing version with a new version on the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default version of your application is always fetched from your AsyncAPI document. The above configuration helps the template user override the existing version with a new one on the command line.
```

The changes done in the template will be as follows:

Original:

```js

> <Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Text>App name: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
```

```

Newer:

```js

> <Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Text>App name: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
```

> <Text>Version is: **{params.version || asyncapi.info.version()}**</Text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Text>Version: **{params.version || asyncapi.info.version()}**</Text>
```

```

> Now that you have added all the configuration options, you can start the generation process by using generator CLI. You can pass these parameters via the CLI. When using CLI, it's done by indicating --param name=value or -p name=value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have added all the configuration options, you can start the generation process using the generator CLI. You can pass these parameters via the CLI: `--param name=value or -p name=value`.
```

> As you can see, the above configuration will help the template user to override the existing version with a new version on the command line. For example, `-p version=2.0.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above configuration helps template users override the existing version with a new version on the command line. (Example: `-p version=2.0.0`)
```

## Hooks

> [Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. You can add Hooks to your template as fractions of code. In the template, you must store it in the `hooks` directory under the template directory. You can also store it in other modules and external libraries, or even configure it inside the template. The generation process can perform multiple actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. You can add Hooks to your template as fractions of code. In the template, you must store it in the `hooks` directory under the template directory. You can also store it in other modules and external libraries or configure it inside the template. The generation process can perform multiple actions.
```

**Templates** can perform multiple actions _before_ or _after_ the generation process with the help of **hooks**.

> For example, hooks can help you change the specification version with the new `version` that you can pass before the generation process even begins:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hooks can help you change the specification version with the new `version` that you can pass before the generation process even begins:
```

```js
module.exports = {
  'generate:before': ({ asyncapi, templateParams = {} }) => {
    const version = templateParams.version || asyncapi.info().version();
    asyncapi._json.info.version = version;
  }
};
```
This can be an even better alternative way of overriding the `version` parameter that we discussed in the previous section. Not only a markdown document will be generated but also the AsyncAPI document that was passed to the generator will be returned with the overwritten version.

The updated template looks like the following:

```js

> <Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Text>App name: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
```

> <Text>Version is: **{asyncapi.info.version()}**</Text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Text>Version: **{asyncapi.info.version()}**</Text>
```

export default function({ asyncapi, params, originalAsyncAPI }) {
return (
    <File name="asyncapi.md">
    <Text>This is a markdown file for my application.</Text>
    <Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
    </File>
);
}
```
## 2. `package.json` file

Before the generation process begins, the generator installs the template into its dependencies. A `package.json` is necessary to identify the template name.

The following block shows an example `package.json` file that points to the [React Render Engine](react-render-engine.md) and necessary dependencies:

```json
{
  "name": "myTemplate",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
  }
}
```

The above example of a`template/index.js` file shows the generation process result. The user also receives an `asyncapi.md` file with hardcoded and dynamic (title of the application taken from AsyncAPI document) information.

Every template must depend on the [`@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk` package](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk), which contains a template file's basic components.

> ## Additional configuration options

Reviewer 2: this section got long as there are instructions for package.json and template files, maybe under this section add to subsections?

```
### Adding configuration to package.json

### Accessing parameters inside template
```

wdyt?

These are predefined configurations which help generator achieve specific set of tasks throughout the generation process. The `generator` property from 'package.json' contains all the configuration information. To learn more about template configuration and various supported parameters. Read more about the [configuration file](configuration-file.md).

> Whenever you make a change to the package.json, make sure you perform an update by running `npm install`;  this command synchronizes with the package-lock.json and validates the file.

The following examples show some advanced configurations that we can use in our `package.json` file:

```json
{
  "name": "myTemplate",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react",
    "supportedProtocols": "mqtt"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
  }
}
```
Based on these custom configurations we can use this template to generate an output. The above `package.json` file has a newly added configuration called `supportedProtocols` which is set to `mqtt`. This configuration displays all the protocols that this template supports. We can have multiple supported protocols in our template. 

> For example, if you want to generate an output using above template, you need to have asyncapi document that has servers with `mqtt` in order to generate your desired output. If your asyncapi document has server connections with `kafka`, the generation process will be halted since the only supported protocol mentioned is `mqtt`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to generate an output using the above template, you need to have an AsyncAPI document that has servers that use `mqtt` in order to generate your desired output. If your AsyncAPI document has server connections with `kafka`, the generation process will be terminated since the only supported protocol mentioned is `mqtt`. 
```

> Additionally, we can also have a configuration called `parameters` which is an object with all the parameters that can be passed when generating the template. When using the command line, it's done by indicating `--param name=value` or `-p name=value`:

Reviewer 2: I recommend you do not mention CLI here

```json
{
  "name": "myTemplate",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react",
    "supportedProtocols": "mqtt",
    "parameters": {
        "version": {

>           "description": "Override the version of your application provided under `info.version` location in the specification file.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          "description": "Override the version of your application provided under `info.version` location in the AsyncAPI document.",
```

          "required": false
        }
    }
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
  }
}
```

> The default version of your application is always fetched from your asyncapi document. The above configuration will help the template user to override the existing version with a new version on the command line. For example, `-p version=2.0.0`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default version of your application is always fetched from your AsyncAPI document. The above configuration will help the template user to override the existing version with a new version on the command line. For example, `-p version=2.0.0`.
```

Reviewer 2: and yeah, CLI

I would not mix CLI hints in this explanation

CLI would make sense at the end of the document, as last section, like `Now once you have basics, you created all files mentioned above, you can generate your template with the following CLI command`

The changes done in the template will be as follows:

Original:

```js
<Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
```

Newer:

```js
<Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
<Text>Version is: **{params.version || asyncapi.info.version()}**</Text>
```

## Hooks

> [Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. You can add Hooks to your template as fractions of code. In the template, you must store it in the `hooks` directory under the template directory. You can also store it in other modules and external libraries, or even configure it inside the template. The generation process can perform multiple actions. _(Example: A hook that generates a pdf after the generation process is complete.)_

Reviewer 2: pdf is bad example 😅 please do not mention it 😄 

```suggestion
[Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. You can add Hooks to your template as fractions of code. In the template, you must store it in the `hooks` directory under the template directory. You can also store it in other modules and external libraries, or even configure it inside the template. The generation process can perform multiple actions.
```

**Templates** can perform multiple actions _before_ or _after_ the generation process with the help of **hooks**.

> For example, In AsyncAPI html-template, hooks can help you change the specification version with the new `version` that you can pass before the generation process even begins:

Reviewer 2: `html-template`

don't mention html-template

rather focus on referring only to example that is already done in previous sections

```js
module.exports = {
  'generate:before': ({ asyncapi, templateParams = {} }) => {
    const version = templateParams.version || asyncapi.info().version();
    asyncapi._json.info.version = version;
  }
};
```

> This can be an even better alternative way of overriding the `version` parameter that we discussed in the previous section. If the user executes the command `-p version=2.0.0 asyncapiFileDir="./"` on the command line, the asyncapi file along with the overwritten version will be returned in the form of a pdf or markdown document. 

Reviewer 2: yeah, no cli and pdf please 😄

The updated template looks like the following:

```js
<Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
<Text>Version is: **{asyncapi.info.version()}**</Text>
```

> Since hooks are reusable, it is very important that you override the version in the template context as well. For example, In nodejs-template, the following hooks are overridden in the template context so that they can still be reused for other purposes:

Reviewer 2: this is not important for above example, leave it for the reader of hooks.md

As you can see, the above configuration will help the template user to override the existing version with a new version on the command line. For example, `-p version=2.0.0`.

## Hooks

[Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. You can add Hooks to your template as fractions of code. In the template, you must store it in the `hooks` directory under the template directory. You can also store it in other modules and external libraries, or even configure it inside the template. The generation process can perform multiple actions.

**Templates** can perform multiple actions _before_ or _after_ the generation process with the help of **hooks**.

For example, hooks can help you change the specification version with the new `version` that you can pass before the generation process even begins:

```js
module.exports = {
  'generate:before': ({ asyncapi, templateParams = {} }) => {
    const version = templateParams.version || asyncapi.info().version();
    asyncapi._json.info.version = version;
  }
};
```

> This can be an even better alternative way of overriding the `version` parameter that we discussed in the previous section. Not only a markdown document will be generated but also the AsyncAPI file that was passed to the generator will be returned with the overwritten version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be an even better alternative way of overriding the `version` parameter that we discussed in the previous section. Not only a markdown document will be generated but also the AsyncAPI document that was passed to the generator will be returned with the overwritten version.
```

yeah, make sure you say AsyncAPI document, not file

The updated template looks like the following:

```js
<Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
<Text>Version is: **{asyncapi.info.version()}**</Text>
```

> For example, In nodejs-template, the following hooks are overridden in the template context so that they can still be reused for other purposes:
> 
> ```json
> {
> "@asyncapi/generator-hooks": "^0.1.0",
> "hooks": {
>       "@asyncapi/generator-hooks": "createAsyncapiFile"
>     }
>   }
> ```
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

please remove this section, it is not really relevant in context of this document, should be left for hooks document readers, as "more details". Template development is like a guide that highlights basics, using some example. 

I'm not 100% sure, but I guess I suggested you this example before but I think we can go without it

---

> title: "Template"

Reviewer 2: this document overlaps with https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/blob/master/docs/authoring-templates.md

this one is actually better than the other one, but instead of removing the other and adding new, I suggest we stick to `authoring-templates.md` and just remove what is there and replace what you have here

makes sense?

Reviewer 2: @pratik2315 I think you missed this comment

weight: 50
---

# Minimum template requirements

> The following section talks about the bare minimum components your template should have in any given situation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's discuss the minimum components your template requires: `template` directory and `package.json` file.
```

> ### 1. `template` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. `template` directory
```

> This is where you keep the files that determine the output that will be generated. In other words, the Generator processes all the files stored in this directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `template` directory stores files with the generated outputs. In other words, the Generator processes all the files stored in this directory.
```

```js
import { File, Text } from "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk";

export default function({ asyncapi, params, originalAsyncAPI }) {
return (
    <File name="asyncapi.md">
    <Text>This is a markdown file for my application.</Text>
    <Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
    </File>
);
}
```

> The above example of `template/index.js` file shows as a result of the generation process. A user of such a minimal template will receive `asyncapi.md` file with some hardcoded information and some dynamic information extracted for the AsyncAPI file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example of a`template/index.js` file shows the generation process result. The user also receives an `asyncapi.md` file with hardcoded and dynamic information extracted into the AsyncAPI file.
```

> Important to notice is that every template must depend on [`@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk`](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk) package containing a set of basic components to use in template files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every template must depend on the [`@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk` package](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk), which contains a template file's basic components.
```

> ### 2. `package.json` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. `package.json` file
```

> Before the generation process runs, the Generator must install the template into its dependencies, and `package.json` is necessary to identify the template name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the generation process runs, the Generator installs the template into its dependencies. A `package.json` is necessary to identify the template name.
```

> Following block shows an example `package.json` file and some select dependencies:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following block shows an example `package.json` file with configuration pointing to [React Render Engine](react-render-engine.md) and necessary dependencies:
```

> Following block shows an example `package.json` file with configuration pointing to [React Render Engine](react-render-engine.md) and necessary dependancies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following block shows an example `package.json` file that points to the [React Render Engine](react-render-engine.md) and necessary dependencies:
```

```json
{
  "name": "myTemplate",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
  }
}
```

> Whenever you make a change to package.json make sure you perform an update with `npm install` to synchronize with package-lock.json and validate if the file is not broken after your changes.

> 

Reviewer 2: please add here first a section about template configuration, short section where you intro configuration concept and link to proper file for more (https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/blob/master/docs/configuration-file.md)

> > Whenever you make a change to package.json make sure you perform an update with `npm install` to synchronize with package-lock.json and validate if the file is not broken after your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Whenever you make a change to the package.json, make sure you perform an update by running `npm install`;  this command synchronizes with the package-lock.json and validates the file.
```

> [Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. Hooks are fractions of code that can be added to your Template. They can be plugged-in onto the generation process to perform multiple actions. For example, we can configure a hook that generates a pdf after the generation process is completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Hooks

[Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. Hooks are fractions of code that can be added to your Template. They can be plugged-in onto the generation process to perform multiple actions. For example, we can configure a hook that generates a pdf after the generation process is completed.
```

Reviewer 2: also hooks should be last ones that are mentioned

Render engines are actually responsible for generating–code, documentation, markdown, diagrams, or anything else you may have specified to be generated as output. AsyncAPI templates support multiple render engines including both [Nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md) and [React](react-render-engine.md). 

> Each rendering engine has its own process and unique set of features. Hence, your choice of render engine greatly affects how you write a Template. Even though you are free to use the render engine of your choice, AsyncAPI recommends you to use React render engine for your projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each rendering engine has its own process and unique set of features, uniquely affecting how you write templates. While you're free to use the render engine of your choice, we recommend using the React render engine for your projects.
```

> Render engines are actually responsible for generating–code, documentation, markdown, diagrams, or anything else you may have specified to be generated as output. AsyncAPI templates support multiple render engines including both [Nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md) and [React](react-render-engine.md). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Render engines

Render engines are actually responsible for generating–code, documentation, markdown, diagrams, or anything else you may have specified to be generated as output. AsyncAPI templates support multiple render engines including both [Nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md) and [React](react-render-engine.md). 
```

> > AsyncAPI [React SDK](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk) is a set of components/functions to use React as render engine in the Generator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The [AsyncAPI React SDK](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk) is a set of components/functions that use React as a render engine in the Generator.
```

## Hooks

> [Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. Hooks are fractions of code that can be added to your Template. They can be plugged-in onto the generation process to perform multiple actions. For example, we can configure a hook that generates a pdf after the generation process is completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. Hooks are fractions of code that can be added to your template. They can be plugged into the generation process to perform multiple actions. (Example: a hook that generates a pdf after the generation process is completed)
```

> Similarly, you can have your Template perform multiple actions before or after the generation process with the help of Hooks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Templates` can perform multiple actions _before_ or _after_ the generation process with the help of `hooks`.
```

> AsyncAPI has a list of readily available templates you can use to enhance your generation process. These templates are stored as github repositories on [AsyncAPI organization’s](https://github.com/asyncapi) official github profile.

Reviewer 2: this paragraph should actually be moved to [docs/template.md](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/pull/843/files#diff-402df3bcefa44a9f9e2b52fe5f28ac421f7e06cbdc02ef22b5e2dac029da4d89)

as next section like `List of official generator templates` and copy what we have here https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/blob/master/README.md#list-of-official-generator-templates

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

please remove empty spaces

> Whenever you make a change to the package.json, make sure you perform an update by running `npm install`;  this command synchronizes with the package-lock.json and validates the file.

## Render engines

Render engines generate code, documentation, markdown, diagrams, or anything else you may have specified to be generated as output. AsyncAPI templates support multiple render engines, including [Nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md) and [React](react-render-engine.md). 

Each rendering engine has its process and unique features, affecting how you write templates. While you are free to use the render engine of your choice, we recommend using the React render engine for your projects.

> The [AsyncAPI React SDK](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk) is a set of components and functions that use React as a render engine in the generator.

> ## Hooks

Reviewer 2: we could add a real example here, like use case that someone wants to do changes in AsyncAPI document before it goes into generation

```
module.exports = {
  'generate:before': function switchOperations(generator) {
      const newVersion = generator.templateParams.version;
      if (!newVersion) return;
      
      const asyncapi = JSON.parse(generator.originalAsyncAPI);
      asyncapi.info.version = newVersion;
      generator.originalAsyncAPI = JSON.stringify(asyncapi);
  };
};
```

please check locally if above code actually works 😄 tbh I'm not sure 😅 

and you explain that this is a different way of supporting `version` parameter that was explained in previous section. That this way is better

then template looks like
```
<Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
<Text>Version is: **{asyncapi.info.version()}**</Text>
```

and important is that you override the version in the Template Context. So you can for example still use some reusable hooks like:
- https://github.com/asyncapi/nodejs-template/blob/master/package.json#L36
- https://github.com/asyncapi/nodejs-template/blob/master/package.json#L110

and if someone will do `-p version=2.0.0 asyncapiFileDir="./"` then not only markdown doc will be generated but also the asyncapi file that was passed to generator, but with overwritten version. 

I hope that makes sense 😅 lemme know if more explanation is needed

---

> title: "Template Development"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Template development"
```

weight: 50
---

# Minimum template requirements

Let's discuss the minimum components your template requires: `template` directory and `package.json` file.

## 1. `template` directory

> The `template` directory stores files with the generated outputs. In other words, the Generator processes all the files stored in this directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `template` directory stores generated outputs in files. In other words, the Generator processes all the files stored in this directory.
```

```js
import { File, Text } from "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk";

export default function({ asyncapi, params, originalAsyncAPI }) {
return (
    <File name="asyncapi.md">
    <Text>This is a markdown file for my application.</Text>
    <Text>App name is: **{ asyncapi.info().title() }**</Text>
    </File>
);
}
```

> TThe above example of a`template/index.js` file shows the generation process result. The user also receives an `asyncapi.md` file with hardcoded and dynamic information extracted into the AsyncAPI file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example of a`template/index.js` file shows the generation process result. The user also receives an `asyncapi.md` file with hardcoded and dynamic information extracted into the AsyncAPI file.
```

Every template must depend on the [`@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk` package](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk), which contains a template file's basic components.

## 2. `package.json` file

> Before the generation process runs, the Generator installs the template into its dependencies. A `package.json` is necessary to identify the template name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the generation process runs, the generator installs the template into its dependencies. A `package.json` is necessary to identify the template name.
```

> The following block shows an example `package.json` file that points to the [React Render Engine](react-render-engine.md) and necessary dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following block shows an example `package.json` file that points to the [React Render Engine](react-render-engine.md) and necessary dependencies:
```

```json
{
  "name": "myTemplate",
  "generator": {
    "renderer": "react"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
  }
}
```

> ## Template Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Template configuration
```

We observe **sentence** **capitalization** for headers in our Docs 😄

> The `package.json` file from the Generator must be configured so that it contains JSON objects that may have the following information. Some of the parameters used for template configuration are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure the generator's `package.json` file to contain JSON objects with the required parameters for template configuration, such as:
```

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`renderer`| String | Its value can be either `react` or `nunjucks` (default).
|`supportedProtocols`| [String] | A list with all the protocols this template supports.
|`parameters`| Object[String, Object] | An object with all the parameters that can be passed when generating the template. When using the command line, it's done by indicating `--param name=value` or `-p name=value`.
|`parameters[param].description`| String | A user-friendly description about the parameter.
|`parameters[param].default`| Any | Default value of the parameter if not specified. Shouldn't be used for mandatory `required=true` parameters.
|`parameters[param].required`| Boolean | Whether the parameter is required or not.

> These are predefined configurations which help generator achieve specific set of tasks throughout the generation process. The `generator` property from 'package.json' contains all the configuration information. To learn more about template configuration and various supported parameters. Read more about the [configuration file](configuration-file.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These predefined configurations help the generator achieve specific tasks throughout the generation process. The `generator` property from the 'package.json' contains all the configuration information. To learn more about template configuration and various supported parameters, read the [configuration file doc](configuration-file.md)
```

Author: hey there! yes there is a doc for configuration file currently planned

> Whenever you make a change to the package.json, make sure you perform an update by running `npm install`;  this command synchronizes with the package-lock.json and validates the file.

> ## Render Engines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Render engines
```

> Render engines are actually responsible for generating–code, documentation, markdown, diagrams, or anything else you may have specified to be generated as output. AsyncAPI templates support multiple render engines including both [Nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md) and [React](react-render-engine.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Render engines generate code, documentation, markdown, diagrams, or anything else you may have specified to be generated as output. AsyncAPI templates support multiple render engines, including [Nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md) and [React](react-render-engine.md). 
```

> Each rendering engine has its own process and unique set of features, uniquely affecting how you write templates. While you are free to use the render engine of your choice, we recommend using the React render engine for your projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each rendering engine has its process and unique features, affecting how you write templates. While you are free to use the render engine of your choice, we recommend using the React render engine for your projects.
```

> > The [AsyncAPI React SDK](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk) is a set of components/functions that use React as a render engine in the Generator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The [AsyncAPI React SDK](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator-react-sdk) is a set of components and functions that use React as a render engine in the generator.
```

## Hooks

> [Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. Hooks are fractions of code that can be added to your template. In the template, they must be stored in the `hooks` directory under the template directory. They can also be stored in other modules and external libraries and configured inside the template. They can be plugged into the generation process to perform multiple actions. _(Example: a hook that generates a pdf after the generation process is completed)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Hooks](hooks.md) enable templates to perform multiple tasks. You can add Hooks to your template as fractions of code. In the template, you must store it in the `hooks` directory under the template directory. You can also store it in other modules and external libraries, or even configure it inside the template. The generation process can perform multiple actions. _(Example: A hook that generates a pdf after the generation process is complete.)_
```
